1) What is internet?


 Internet: Internet is a global network that connects billions of computers across 
           the world with each other.


 ex: like one person wants to communicate with another person so how this thing is possible??
      
     so to communicate with this two person we require multiple computers and that we call internet.

   2) if we connect the global system of interconnected computers so,this will be internet.


there are two ways to connect the computers

1) through wire : to connect the computer with wire is complex or you can say its tough to connect with it,
if we want to connect the computers with wire,for ex- we need to connect 10 computers so at this point we 
need 45 cables to connect with each computer and this is very complex process(9 cable per computer)

 so to reduce this complexcity we use router -router make sure that which device wants the information
 only that particular decive only gets that message.but there is also some boundary or we can say limitation of
 one router to connect the decive.


so the question is that, what we will do?? to overcome this stuitation?

we will connect multiple routers to connect with each router to communicate with world wide devices.

we also need ISP internet service providers who provides us serives of internet.

companies like BSNL, AIRTEL ,JIO etc are the providers who provides such internet cable servies .

Also we require data center to store our data so that when we request them to display the information
to our presentation layers that particular key will go to application layer for the authentication and then 
data layer will gives information to it. 

                  
2) through wireless.




HTTP AND HTTPS:
===================


 HTTP:  Hypertext Transfer Protocol. 
        HTTP is an application layer protocol.

        HTTP protocol allows us to transfer the data from the server to the client.

        HTTP is a stateless protocol as each transaction is executed separately without
        having any knowledge of the previous transactions, which means that once the transaction 
        is completed between the web browser and the server, the connection gets lost. 

        So,we can say HTTP protocol does not provide the security to the data.

        so, what next?


 HTTPS: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure.

       This protocol allows transferring the data in an encrypted form. 
       then HTTPS uses an encryption protocol known as Transport Layer Security,and another Secure socket layers
       to transfer the data to another device.


   this two protocols (TLS AND SSL) uses key infrature for transferring the data.
   one is public key and another is private key.



  PRIVATE KEY:Private key: This key is available on the web server, which is managed by the owner of a website.
             It decrypts the information which is encrypted by the public key.

     EX: GIFT: the gift you are giving to your friend,wrapping the gift you can call encrpt and while opeing the 
               gift, we can say decrypt method.


 PUBLIC KEY: This key is available to everyone. It converts the data into an encrypted form.




DOMAIN NAME:

   A domain name is a string of text that maps to an alphanumeric IP address, used to access a website 
   from client software. In plain English, a domain name is the text that a user types into a browser
   window to reach a particular website. For instance, the domain name for Google is ‘google.com’.

   The actual address of a website is a complex numerical IP address (e.g. 192.0.2.2), 
   but thanks to DNS, users are able to enter human-friendly domain names and be routed to 
   the websites they are looking for. This process is known as a DNS lookup.



 EX: https://www.topstechnologies.com


 where: http is protocol(set of rule)

        www-(world wide web): sub domain

        topstechnologies: domain name

        
  the last segment of a domain name or  we can say the part that follows immediately after the "dot" symbol.

  com- top level domain


 so we can say domain name is a unqiue name to identifie any website.



TLDs are mainly classified into two categories: generic TLDs and country-specific TLDs.

Examples of some of the popular TLDs include:

.com -Commercial businesses

.org -Organizations

.net -Network organizations

.gov -government agencies

.edu- Educational




   



